# Interview Soft Skills
- prove technical competence
- connect

technical competence:
- resume/projects/bullets/experience
- coding challenges

The question with a thousand faces:
- tell me about yourself
  - your background
  - what brings you here?
  - why did you decide to switch careers?
- 2-3 minutes

Tell a story with your personal pitch:
- beginning, middle, end
- make it concrete, establish a setting, character(s)
- leave out unnecessary details
- revise, practice, revise, practice

The structure:
- How did you get started in the industry?
- What do you know? Skills + projects
  - "Over the past year, I've been developing my skills in..."
  - "I've been working on..." "I worked on..."
- You and the company

1. Show you've been interested in software for a long time
2. Say when you decided to pursue software more seriously.
3. Newbie vs. Knowledgable
4. Say something company-specific

important things to remember:
1. have good balance between the different components
2. adapt your pitch for different scenarios
3. don't apologize; own your advantage
  - some people spend half their pitch trying to justify why they're here

Present yourself as a software engineer

Delivery:
Speaking
- volume test
- take your time
- don't apologize or couch statements

Body Language:
- make eye contact
- more energy, usually
- relax, breath, smile
- sit & stand up straight
- try not to fidget
- talk to your interviewer, not to the air


Create your triangle
take 15 minutes
choose a company-specific
write your triangle for that company-specific

be sure to show that you've been interested in tech or related for a long time
say when you decided to pursue software more seriously
name your Skills & accomplishments
say something company-specific


I've been interested in computers and tech since I was around 8 years old when my family bought our first Windows PC. However, I didn't consider a career in tech until much later in life when I started working as an administrative assistant at a small tech company a little over two years ago. There I met a web dev manager, who had a background that was very similar to my own: she worked as admin assistant, but she was not fulfilled working in that role. So she picked up programming through online courses and eventually pursued a Master's degree in Computer Science. I thought to myself, "If Willow could do it, so can I."

In the past two years, I learned HTML/CSS, JavaScript and even some C++ and slowly built up my programming skills. A few months ago, I decided to take a leap of faith and pursue a full-time education in computer programming. In addition to building upon the languages that I had learned already, I learned new languages, including Ruby, RoR, and ReactJS, and I got to work on really fun but challenging projects such as my OKCupet full-stack project that utilizes Rails/React. I'm currently working on a data visualization project using only JavaScript.

As a female software engineer, I want to inspire and encourage others in their pursuit of fulfilling careers the same way my friend Willow did for me. I believe that diversifying the tech industry will only benefit the industry as a whole by bringing in a larger pool of great talent, ideas and innovations. I think my values align very well with that of Google's diversity values. If I were hired at Google, I think I could help make positive changes in here and in the industry as a whole.



# Online Presence:

Perception. Image. Information.

# Items Due very soon:
Personal Pitch Video due tomorrow @ 9 AM via Jobberwocky
JS Project due Friday @ 12 PM
Resume & Cover letter due Monday @ 9 AM
Flex proposal due Monday 9 AM
LinkedIn due Monday @ 9 AM

# Highly Recommended Tasks:
Google Analytics (10 - 15 minutes)
Github Cleanup
Personal Portfolio (5 - 10 minutes)
AngelList

# LinkedIn:
- do the reading
- recruiter's perspective
- leveraging connections

- Professional photo
- Summary:
  - Add a hook. Add keywords (Ruby, Rails, etc.)
- Work Exp:
  - Bullet Points!
- Education:
  - a/A
- Add projects under Accomplishments

Recruiter View:
- Past Work Exp (titles only)
- Education
- Recommendations
- Connections

Networking:
- look up a company you want to apply at
- Reach out to 1st connections
- Reach out to 1st connections to connect to 2nd connections


Github:
- stay active/keep building
- pinning repos you want to featured
- Great readmes on those repos
- Star and follow

Keep those squares green!
- studying? take notes on markdown doc and push it
- if you're doing practice problems, type out solutions, & push it
- keep revising old projects & push it
- consider starting small scale projects to add to push them

Personal Portfolio are viewed more frequently than individual project pages

# AngelList
- small to medium sized companies
- easy to apply
- great profile interface
- response rates from 3-8% in general. highly dependent on culture and experience first
- make yourself seem like a human. Do the blurbs. Don't be boring.
