# What are they looking for?
- Big picture: Someone they want to work with
- Ability to work through a difficult problems
- Good communication skills and fit with team members

General Advice:
- Phone Screen
  - Don't rush
  - If it's technical, have something to write on
  - If it's behavioral, have your PAR chart in front of you
- Coding challenge
  - coding style and presentation
  - efficiency and modularity
  - good documentation
  - write tests
  - make the call on whether or not its worth it.
- Onsite

Algorithms/Data Structures - General overview
- The "classic" way to interview a software developer
- Sometimes done on a whiteboard, sometimes with a phone

-----
You have a linked list and you want to find the kth to last node. Write a function kth_to_last_node that takes an integers k and the head_node of a linked list and returns the kth to the last node in the list.

How to do well:
Performing (in the context of whiteboarding)
- Understand (30%)
- Plan (45%)
- Code (25%)
- Test and Analyze (100%)


# Understand
- Restate the question
  - do it in your own words
  - helps you fully understand the question (eliminate misunderstandings)
  - buys you time
- Ask clarifying questions
  - What are some clarifying questions for this problem.
  - single or double linked list
  - what if k is bigger than the head_node
  - what is the api?
  - time constraints? make it the fastest time complexity possible
- Example inputs and outputs
  - Example I/O & edge cases
  - "test throughout"
  - designated top left corner
  - Node list [A] -> [B] -> [C] -> [D]
  - k = length of list => nil
  - k = 0 => D
  - k is negative => nil
  - k = 2 => B
- Talk/ask about

# Plan:
## Plan: brainstorm
- Brainstorm different approaches
- Write out the different approaches in English; not even pseudocode yet
  1. Array -> index
  2. Hash ->

## Plan: test/analyze the different approaches
- does it work with the example inputs?
- time and space complexity
- pick the best approach

## Plan: pseudocode
1. initialize []
2. iterate through link list (#each) does LL class have an each method? no? then use while .next != nil
3. store each node
4. calculate kth to last of index

# Code

i = 0
while i < linked_list.length

end


# Test code
- find bugs
- do any last analysis of time complexity and space complexity

Optimal solution: Pointers
Two pointers pointing to the first node. If you know what k is, move the 2nd (lead) pointer out by k times. Then iterate and moved the pointers by one. If the lead pointer is pointing to the last node, then return the node that the trailing pointer is pointing at.

Get comfortable whiteboarding in Ruby, but be comfortable with JS for frontend questions

# Algorithms/Data Structures: How to Prep:
- 2 Cracking the Code Interview or Elements of Programming Interview Problems each day
- 1 Leetcode or Hackerrank problem per day
- practice live and often - 2 Pramp interviews per week
- Take notes on your own practice and study - what techniques are you using? When you do use them?
- Other great resources: Codility, InterviewCake, MIT, Stanford, Princeton, Coursera

# Knowledge/Trivia - General overview
1. "Do you have a baseline understanding of various important subjects in web development and can you communication you understanding well?"
2. JavaScript, Rails, Ruby, SQL, HTML/CSS, React/Redux
  - Depth of knowledge is important

## examples
- What is the event loop? How does it work?
- Tell me about the differences between ES5 and ES6
- 'Lightning rounds'

## how to do well
- structure your responses:
  - don't rush. take a couple minutes to think
  - thesis statement: "The event loops is essentially a queue of callback functions To fully explain the event loop, we have to understand how the JS call stack works, how async functions are executing and then finally how the event loop handles those callback functions"
  - Use an example to illustrate the idea
    - example should be small and show benefits of tool/concept

## Prepping:
- Review instructional curriculum (but not its entirety! be efficient!)
  - Recommended review order: JS, SQL, React/Redux, Rails
  - Life cycles, ActiveRecord, etc.
- Week 13+ After-curriculum resources
  - front end developer interview questions
  - flashcards (i.e. Anki)
  - Emphasize learning not just reading

Practical - General overview
- building something
  - build a react component that prints hello, world to the Screen
  - build a digital clock using only vanilla JS
- make calls to an API
- debug
  here's some broken code, fix it
- refactor


# tips:
- waste as little time as possible on setup - practice writing boilerplate code
- communicate well - remember your pair programming experience
- remember to test (don't wait until you've coded up the entire problem before testing to see that it works) and analyze along the way

# Practical - how to prep:
- keep coding - don't let your skills get stale: recommended 1.5 hours of working on projects and practical coding challenges per day
- focus on deepening your understanding as you code (i.e. don't just stack overflow, shrug and move on)
- https://javascript30.com
- hackathons

Arch/System Design - General overview
- often big, vague, broad questions
- often times more pseudocode and high level discussion than actual coding
- looking for good judgement

Example:
- How would you design a url shortener
- Design twitter
- What happens when you type in "google.com" and hit enter?

How to do well
- start with making sure you understand the end goals
- make it conversational
- diagrams and visuals (use whiteboard or paper)

How to prep:
- Read 1 High Scalability article per day to get acquainted with different tools available and their strengths/weaknesses. What is a NoSQL database, why use one? What are its strengths and weaknesses? As you read, research that topics your not familiar with, make flashcards out of them
- 30 minutes per day of studying the arch/system design resources in after curriculum repo
- be ready for the often asked questions
- practice doing this with your everyday websites

After the interview:
Always debrief with yourself
  - what questions did you struggle with and why?
  - what topics came up? go one level deeper with each?
  - Interview-db
Get feedback if you can
Don't take rejection personally

Tips for Success:
- Be disciplined
- Put yourself out there
- The opposite of the doom loop mindset
- Form a study schedule (week 14+)
  - CS50x - Intro to CS on edX
  - Review instructional curriculum (Ruby OOP, JS, Rails, Redux/ReactJS)
  - Leetcode/Hackerrank + Cracking the Code Interview or Elements of Programming Interview Problems each day
  - javascript30
- growth mindset
- constant reflection
- aggressive, not passive


potential tricky bug:
chart.js


-----
