# Variations - Algorithms

- HackerRank style
  - make sure you practice with it
  - should be used to the Stdin/Stdout paradigm; don't waste time
  - make sure you're used to how data gets input in the code; strings!

# Variations - Takehomes
- different timing schemes
- build a frontend that uses our API - mockups, interactivity, etc.
- build a piece of backend functionality - API endpoint, dataset parser, build a RDBMS, etc
- build a full-stack mini-site - use this data, implement a system that accesses and updates it from the frontend
- More vague - build something that does "this"

# Keys to success

## Getting started

- Questions and clarifications
  - don't be afraid to seek clarification on the setup and expectations. try to be self-sufficient but seeking clarification is a good quality in an engineer
  - document your assumptions

- Tech stack
  - choose your tech stack, libraries, frameworks wisely.

## Sketch your solutions
- design diagram/wireframes
  - make sure you know what the final product will look like and how it will function
- class/component/file/db structure/flow
  - make a plan for all the features and details of the component pieces (UML)
- brainstorming bonus features and tests

## implementation timeline
- Research areas
  - layout your research plan; anything that you need to look into to get your solutions.
- Possible hurdles
- order of operations

## Pseudo code
- can be very useful in fleshing out the functionality of your solution and finding places that will require more thinking

## Final product:
- Deliverables: the required final product
- Bonus Features: at least mention bonus directions in the readme
- Comments: help out the engineers; the more pleasant their experience with your code, the more they will like you.
- Tests: makes you look good
- Notes on your choices/process/bugs: keep track; you will be asked to talk about your coding challenge
- Refactoring: make it better
- README: explain features, choices, and approach.


API without frameworks (Rails, etc.)
- Rack


# Send-off Lecture/workshop

## Everyone is on a different path
- do not compare yourself to others
- realistic expectations, especially during the holidays
- cyclical

## How to manage your time
- applying
- networking
- studying/github
- coding challenges
- projects/github

  - remember to update:
    - jobberwocky
    - interview-db.herokuapp.com

## Accountability
- create a day/hourly schedule
- set alarms
- get an accountability partner
  - practice behavioral/practical interviewing
- know and ask for the support you need

## Create a good schedule
- manage your time
  - how will you apply for jobs? when?
  - what does networking look like daily?
  - how will you study/practice?
  - how will you add to github?

Goals for the next 3 weeks:
- https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions/comments/1jov24/heres_how_to_prepare_for_tech_interviews/
- Finish OKCupet
- Review/learn time/space complexity
- Study Algorithms
- Review Ruby/OOP (boardgames)
- JS30/Review JS concepts (closures, currying, etc.)
- HackerRank/LeetCode
- Learn Python

## "How Much do you want to make?"
"At the end of the day it is about fit and culture.
When we get to that point, I will be looking at Glassdoor and the marketplace.
However when we get there, I am sure we can find something that will be win-win for everyone."

## What is the story YOU want to tell?
- Dust yourself off and move forward
- Learn from the rejections. Sometimes, it's not about you

## Help each other
- Support each other
  - Listen
  - Resources
  - Peer review
- Study together

## What would getting a job mean to you?
- Come up with three words to answer this question:

#### 1. MONEYYYYYYYY
#### 2. Purpose
#### 3. Reward

Ask yourself, "Am I moving toward these words or away from them?"

## Take aways from Josh:
- Do not be passive about the job search
- Be aggressive!
- Burn out is real; take a mental break if necessary, but do not forget to apply the aggressive effort that we had in learning at a/A into the job search

## Holiday breaks
- Week of Nov 20, no role call & the job application quota will be lower than 40
- Dec 18th - Jan 2nd - no role call
